The decision to take health insurance is
one of the most important decisions in life.  But
when there are so many plans in the market, the
confusion also increases.
Nowadays, people want not just hospitalization cover
but also maternity, OPD, unlimited
reset and future inflation protection.
That's why in today's video we are going to
talk about two powerful
and popular health insurance plans of India.
That is Bajaj Alanj My Health Care Plan
and ICIC LBD Elevate Plan.  Both the plans
are strong in their respective categories but the
approach and benefits are quite different.
Do watch the video till the end because in the end you will be
able to clearly decide which
plan is more suitable for you.  Before
continuing further let me quickly
introduce myself.  I am Soni Chauhan
and welcome to Policy Hub.  Where we
explain the complicated terminology of insurance in simple and easy language.
If you
are confused about health insurance or term insurance or are
unable to select the best plan,
you can book a free consultation with Policy Hub's IRDI certified
advisors
who provide you genuine guidance
without any sales pressure.  Link
is given in the description.  Now without
wasting any time let us start with the
eligibility criteria.  The
first step to understanding any health insurance plan is the
eligibility criteria.
Because if the plan does not support your age or family
structure then the other
features become meaningless.  So let us
first look at the eligibility details of Bajaj Alia My
Healthcare and ICICI LB Elevate Plan.  The
adult entry age for Bajaj Alia My Healthcare Plan is 18
years to 65 years.  Dependent children can be
covered in the family floater plan for 91 days to 30 years.  Sum insured option
available from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 crore.  The premium
is divided into three zones and the maximum
policy tenure is three years.  If you
take a sum insured of more than Rs 50 lakh and your age is
between 46 to 65 years, then a pre-policy
medical test is required.  Whereas in ICICI Low
LBA Elevate Plan, the adult entry age
starts from 18 years and there is
no maximum upper age limit.  Dependent children can be
covered in the family floater plan for 91 days to 30 years.  Sum insured option
available from Rs 5 lakh to unlimited sum insured.   The
premium of the plan is divided into four zones
and the maximum policy tenure is five years.
And the most interesting thing is
that there is no pre-policy checkup at any age in this plan.
Due to which
this plan becomes a very flexible option for senior citizens also.
After eligibility, the most important part
is the basic features because
basic features are most useful at the time of hospitalization.
Inpatient hospitalization is fully covered under Bajaj Allianz My Healthcare Plan.
Both pre-info hospitalization have
options ranging from 30 days to 180 days,
which you can select according to your need.
There is also flexibility in room rent in which options ranging from single private AC room to
any room are available which
depends on your sum and shot.  Organ
donor expenses, day care procedures,
domiciliary hospitalization and AYUSH
treatment are also fully covered.
You can use road ambulance in case of emergency.   The
actual cost of which is covered by the company and you
also get the benefit of air ambulance ranging
from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh which
depends on your selected sum insured.  If your
sum insured gets exhausted, then you get the facility of
single time drain statement for sum insured up to Rs 5 lakh and
unlimited drain statement facility for sum insured above Rs 5 lakh,
which
also works for the same illness.
Inpatient hospitalization is also fully covered in the ICICI Low LMB Elevate Plan.
Pre-
hospitalization cover is available for 90 days and post-
hospitalization cover is available for 180 days.
This plan has a limit of single private AC room.
But ICU charges
are fully covered.  Day care treatment,
domiciliary hospitalization and organ donor
expenses up to the sum and shot are covered.   Along
with AYUSH treatment, robotic and modern
treatments are also fully covered under this plan up
to summation shot.  You can use an ambulance in case of emergency.  The
actual cost of which
is covered by the company and the
strongest feature here is the unlimited reset benefit
which works for both same and unrelated illnesses.
Now let's talk about those
features which make these plans
different and special from each other in the market.  These are the
benefits that take the plan from average to
premium category.  For example, the
strongest part of Bajaj Alia My Healthcare Plan is maternity and baby care
coverage.  Maternity expenses are covered from Rs 50,000
to Rs 1 lakh.  Depends on
your sum insured.  Complications related to surrogacy and assisted
reproductive techniques are
also covered.  Baby
care coverage which covers the child's in-patient
hospitalization expenses ranging from Rs 5
lakh to Rs 15 lakh.  Depends on your
selected sum insured.  Home nursing
benefits are available for up to 10 weeks,
covering Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 per week.   The
expense of prescribed external medical aids is also covered ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs.
50,000 and non-payable items up
to the sum insured are also covered under this plan.
Another unique feature is the renewal premium
waiver, in which the company
waives off one year's premium in case of death of the proposer.
With continuity benefits.  Apart from this,
cumulative bonus is available up to 100% and
OPD expenses like diagnostic,
consultation etc. are covered twice the
annual premium.  The
most unique feature of the ICICI Low LMB Elevate plan is the
Unlimited Reset Benefit, which
works on both same and unrelated illnesses.
Without any extra premium.
Guaranteed cumulative bonus of 20% of
sum insured every year which increases up to a maximum of 100%.  The
special thing is that
this bonus will not be reduced on making a claim.
The plan also covers the treatment expenses of the set mother and oocyte donor,
which is quite rare in the market.  You
can also avail up to 30% discount on renewal premium through wellness program which
totally depends on you.  Let's
now talk about add-ons.  If you want to customize your
plan according to your lifestyle, then the
role of add-ons is very important.  Loss of income cover
like AIDS is available in Bajaj Allianz My Health Care Plan.
In this,
replacement income is available during illness.
Extra sum and shot benefit
is available through Major Illness and Accident Multiplier.  International emergency cover is also available
which is very useful during foreign travel.  At the
same time, ICIC LMA Elevate Plan
is quite advanced in terms of additions.
Through Infinite Care Add On, you get the option to claim
unlimited amount once in your entire lifetime.
Power Booster add-on
gives 100% off sum and shot bonus every year
which increases up to unlimited.  Pre-existing diseases like
asthma, diabetes, hypertension are covered after 30 days through Jump Start add-on.
Delivery expenses are covered by taking maternity benefit.
10% of sum insured and
maximum Rs 1 lakh.  Newborn baby cover is available
which also covers the two-year delivery cover and the baby
's first year vaccination expenses.
B Fit add-on is available to cover 1% of sum insured and maximum Rs 10,000 OPD expenses which
includes consultation, diagnostic, pharmacy, physiotherapy sessions, e-counselling and diet and nutrition e-consultation.
Non-payable items are covered through the claim protector.
Other powerful add-
ons available include inflation protector, air ambulance, nursing at home, compassionate visit, critical illness rider, personal accident rider, room modifier, teleconsultation and durable medical equipment.  So let us now
know about the discount.  Discount is
that part of health insurance which
reduces the premium to a great extent.
Bajaj Ali My Health Care plan
offers zone discounts of up to 25%, family
discount of up to 15%, long term discount of
up to 8%, employee discount of up to 20%,
loyalty discount of 5%, wellness discount of up
to 10%, early entry discount of 5% and fitness discount of 5%.
In the ICICI LBD Elevate plan, you can avail wellness
discount up to 30%, long term
discount up to 15%, early renewal
discount 2.5% and
additional discount of up to 15% based on CIBIL score.
Now let's talk about the waiting
period.  This is the section that tells
which disease is covered in health insurance and
after what time period,
and it is very important to understand this part for hassle-free claim.  The
initial waiting period for both plans is 30 days.   There is a
waiting period of 2 years for specific diseases.  There is a
waiting period of 3 years for pre-existing diseases.  Whereas
for maternity, there is normally a waiting period of 3 years in Bajaj RAZ.
But by
paying long term premium, you can
convert the waiting period of 3 years into 2 years.
Whereas in ICICI Low LBA Elevate Plan, a
waiting period of 2 years for maternity
is applicable.  Talking about the premium,
Bajaj Aaya Aaj My Health Care Plan has a
family floater plan for two members aged 30 and 25 with a premium of Rs 21356 for Tier One
and Rs 17949 for Tier Two.
Whereas in ICICI Lombard Elevate
Plan, the premium is Rs 10994 in Zone One, Rs
9953 in Zone Two, Rs
9432 in Zone Three
and Rs 12,596 in Zone Four,
which is quite affordable in the market.
Overall,
Bajaj Aleanj My Healthcare Plan
is best for those who prioritize family
planning, maternity, baby care and OPD
benefits.  This plan is a
balanced combination of comprehensive coverage and value for money.  The ICIC LBAD
Elevate plan is perfect for those
who want unlimited coverage, inflation protection,
maximum customization and future-ready
features.  This plan becomes a very strong option especially for long term
planning and senior citizens.
Before taking the final decision, keep in mind your health
conditions, family needs and budget.
If you want experts to
suggest the best plan according to your situation, then book a free consultation with Policy Hub's IRDI
certified advisors.
Link
is given in the description.  If you found this video helpful, please
like the video.
Share it with your family and friends and subscribe to the channel.
Also, do not forget to subscribe
to the English YouTube channel for updates in English
and
do tell us in the comment section
which plan you think is more beneficial.  See you
in the next video
with another Honest Insurance breakdown.  Till then
stay safe, stay insured.